[0:00:00] Ken talks about how he would learn data science if he had to start again from ground  zero. Things have definitely changed since the start of his data science journey, so I wanted to provide a current roadmap for this learning process. Hopefully this video will provide you with a clearer path to shape your
[0:00:35] I want to caveat this video by saying that learning is a little bit different for everyone. My word is definitely not gospel, and there's a good chance that you might find something  that works a bit better for you. I hope that this video is a good foundation for you to build off of
[0:00:58] I hope that this video instills in you the big picture priorities that you should have when learning  this field. Data science is a huge field, and it makes the most sense to break it down into its components. The first thing that you need to be familiar with is programming.
[0:01:24] Most people do this in either Python or R. You're free to start with either one, but  I generally prefer Python. R is still very common in academic  and sports circles. You'll also want to have a very basic understanding of statistics to start.
[0:01:50] I've had a change of opinion about how much foundational knowledge you need to learn data science. After experiencing many different types of learning myself, I've found that learning  by doing real-world projects is the most effective way to grasp this field.
[0:02:13] I think you should learn just enough programming and statistics to be able to start exploring  your own projects in general. I think that you can get to this level of knowledge through very introductory online courses. I've linked a video above and below about some of the ones that I
[0:02:39] Kaggle.com is the single best place to learn data science on the internet. The great thing about this is that it's a public forum for people to submit their analysis of shared data sets. They have the micro courses, again
[0:03:02] You can go in and see the code of established data scientists. From this you can see  what packages they used, the way that they explore the data. I would follow along with a few more of these advanced notebooks, and then I would recommend  you starting on your own
[0:03:27] At this point, I would split your time, about 50-50, between working on your own projects and exploring other people's code and work. I would try to apply many of the new things that I saw in these more advanced workbooks to the code that I'm working on
[0:03:54] If you can understand the source code for an algorithm, you functionally understand  the math behind it. It's still good to supplement this information with some actual theory using Wikipedia or  some math textbooks. I find that if I understand how algorithms are built, it's way easier
[0:04:22] You should try to explore building a linear regression or a k-means clustering algorithm from just basic Python components. If you're feeling particularly ambitious, it's extremely valuable to be able to build  some of these algorithms from scratch.
[0:04:48] Advanced projects are one where you strive to find unique insights. This can be fairly intimidating, but if you collect your own data, it can be relatively easy. You can also do this by asking questions of existing data sets that other people haven't  thought of yet.
[0:05:14] I would also recommend exploring some deep learning, NLP, and computer vision concepts. It's important to push yourself to get feedback on your work as well. I highly recommend making your analysis public on Kaggle, GitHub, your blog
[0:05:41] The data science journey is never over. You'll constantly be learning and applying new things, but that's what makes the profession really fun. Putting work on Kaggle is definitely something that I personally need to improve on as well. After you've reached this level, you
[0:06:05] How much time you need to spend learning can vary greatly by person. I think that working around an hour per day would be sufficient to learn the foundations of data science for a year. If I could go back, I would schedule in blocks of time that I would study rather than doing
[0:06:30] I don't suggest studying for less than 30 minutes at a time or for more than three hours. If you study too short, you'll spend too much time catching up on what you did the previous time. I think that there's a pretty high chance of burnout if you spend
[0:06:53] A good goal should be three things. Measurable, something you have complete control over, and finally it should have a time constraint. An example of a good goal is that you'd like to be able to do two exploratory analyses over the next two weeks.
[0:07:22]  accountability is extremely important and you can hold yourself accountable in a  couple of different ways. One is by writing things down and another way is by actually telling people or community. You can tell one of your friends, you can have an accountability partner.
[0:07:47] Hopefully this video will give you a clear path on how to navigate this field. It took me five years to really understand these data science and life concepts and I'm  still learning every day. I would ask you to write in the comment section below what some of
[0:08:11] Thank you so much for watching